=== Civil Procedure Rules ===
RULE 1
RULE 2
RULE 3
RULE 4
RULE 5
RULE 6
RULE 7
RULE 8
RULE 9
RULE 10
RULE 11
RULE 12
RULE 13
RULE 14
RULE 15
RULE 16
RULE 17
RULE 18
RULE 19
RULE 20
RULE 21
RULE 22
RULE 23
RULE 24
RULE 25
RULE 26
RULE 27
RULE 28
RULE 29
RULE 30
RULE 31
RULE 32
RULE 33
RULE 34
RULE 35
RULE 36
RULE 37
RULE 38
RULE 39
RULE 40
RULE 41
RULE 42
RULE 43
RULE 44
RULE 45
RULE 46
RULE 47
RULE 48
RULE 49
RULE 50
RULE 51
RULE 52
RULE 53
RULE 54
RULE 55
RULE 56
RULE 57
RULE 58
RULE 59
RULE 60
RULE 61
RULE 62
RULE 63
RULE 64
RULE 65
RULE 66
RULE 67
RULE 68
RULE 69
RULE 70
RULE 71
RULE 144

=== Criminal Procedure Sample Lines ===
Line 3: ## [ REVISED RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, December 01, 2000 ]
Line 5: ### REVISED RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AS AMENDED (RULES 110-127, RULES OF COURT)
Line 7: **A.M. No. 00-5-03-SC. - Re: Revised Rules of Criminal PRocedure (Rule 110-127, Revised Rules of Court).**
Line 9: **RULE 110
Line 10: PROSECUTION OF OFFENSES****SECTION 1. *Institution of criminal actions.***—Criminal actions shall be instituted as follows:(a)  For offenses where a preliminary investigation is required pursuant to section 1 of Rule 112, by filing the complaint with the proper officer for the purpose of conducting the requisite preliminary investigation.(b) For all other offenses, by filing the complaint or information directly with the Municipal Trial Courts and Municipal Circuit Trial Courts, or the complaint with the office of the prosecutor. In Manila and other chartered cities, the complaint shall be filed with the office of the prosecutor unless otherwise provided in their charters.The institution of the criminal action shall interrupt the running of the period of prescription of the offense charged unless otherwise provided in special laws. (1a)
Line 36: **Sec. 14. *Amendment or substitution.***—A complaint or information may be amended, in form or in substance, without leave of court, at any time before the accused enters his plea. After the plea and during the trial, a formal amendment may only be made with leave of court and when it can be done without causing prejudice to the rights of the accused.However, any amendment before plea, which downgrades the nature of the offense charged in or excludes any accused from the complaint or information, can be made only upon motion by the prosecutor, with notice to the offended party and with leave of court.  The court shall state its reasons in resolving the motion and copies of its order shall be furnished all parties, especially the offended party. (n)If it appears at any time before judgment that a mistake has been made in charging the proper offense, the court shall dismiss the original complaint or information upon the filing of a new one charging the proper offense in accordance with section 19, Rule 119, provided the accused shall not be placed in double jeopardy.  The court may require the witnesses to give bail for their appearance at the trial. (14a)
Line 40: **Sec. 16. *Intervention of the offended party in criminal action.***—Where the civil action for recovery of civil liability is instituted in the criminal action pursuant to Rule 111, the offended party may intervene by counsel in the prosecution of the offense. (16a)
Line 42: **RULE 111
Line 43: PROSECUTION OF CIVIL ACTION****SECTION 1. *Institution of criminal and civil actions.***—(a) When a criminal action is instituted, the civil action for the recovery of civil liability arising from the offense charged shall be deemed instituted with the criminal action unless the offended party waives the civil action, reserves the right to institute it separately or institutes the civil action prior to the criminal action.The reservation of the right to institute separately the civil action shall be made before the prosecution starts presenting its evidence and under circumstances affording the offended party a reasonable opportunity to make such reservation.When the offended party seeks to enforce civil liability against the accused by way of moral, nominal, temperate, or exemplary damages without specifying the amount thereof in the complaint or information, the filing fees therefor shall constitute a first lien on the judgment awarding such damages.Where the amount of damages, other than actual, is specified in the complaint or information, the corresponding filing fees shall be paid by the offended party upon the filing thereof in court.Except as otherwise provided in these Rules, no filing fees shall be required for actual damages.No counterclaim, cross-claim or third-party complaint may be filed by the accused in the criminal case, but any cause of action which could have been the subject thereof may be litigated in a separate civil action. (1a)(b) The criminal action for violation of Batas Pambansa Blg. 22 shall be deemed to include the corresponding civil action. No reservation to file such civil action separately shall be allowed.Upon filing of the aforesaid joint criminal and civil actions, the offended party shall pay in full the filing fees based on the amount of the check involved, which shall be considered as the actual damages claimed. Where the complaint or information also seeks to recover liquidated, moral, nominal, temperate or exemplary damages, the offended party shall pay additional filing fees based on the amounts alleged therein. If the amounts are not so alleged but any of these damages are subsequently awarded by the court, the filing fees based on the amount awarded shall constitute a first lien on the judgment.Where the civil action has been filed separately and trial thereof has not yet commenced, it may be consolidated with the criminal action upon application with the court trying the latter case. If the application is granted, the trial of both actions shall proceed in accordance with section 2 of this Rule governing consolidation of the civil and criminal actions. (cir. 57-97)
Line 49: **Sec. 4. *Effect of death on civil actions.*** —The death of the accused after arraignment and during the pendency of the criminal action shall extinguish the civil liability arising from the delict.  However, the independent civil action instituted under section 3 of this Rule or which thereafter is instituted to enforce liability arising from other sources of obligation may be continued against the estate or legal representative of the accused after proper substitution or against said estate, as the case may be. The heirs of the accused may be substituted for the deceased without requiring the appointment of an executor or administrator and the court may appoint a guardian ad litem for the minor heirs.The court shall forthwith order said legal representative or representatives to appear and be substituted within a period of thirty (30) days from notice.A final judgment entered in favor of the offended party shall be enforced in the manner especially provided in these rules for prosecuting claims against the estate of the deceased.If the accused dies before arraignment, the case shall be dismissed without prejudice to any civil action the offended party may file against the estate of the deceased. (n)
Line 57: **RULE 112
Line 58: PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION****SECTION 1. *Preliminary investigation defined; when required.*** — Preliminary investigation is an inquiry or proceeding to determine whether there is sufficient ground to engender a well-founded belief that a crime has been committed and the respondent is probably guilty thereof, and should be held for trial.Except as provided in section 7 of this Rule, a preliminary investigation is required to be conducted before the filing of a complaint or information for an offense where the penalty prescribed by law is at least four (4) years, two (2) months and one (1) day without regard to the fine. (1a)
Line 68: **Sec. 6. *When warrant of arrest may issue.***—(a) *By the Regional Trial Court* .—Within ten (10) days from the filing of the complaint or information, the judge shall personally evaluate the resolution of the prosecutor and its supporting evidence. He may immediately dismiss the case if the evidence on record clearly fails to establish probable cause. If he finds probable cause, he shall issue a warrant of arrest, or a commitment order if the accused has already been arrested pursuant to a warrant issued by the judge who conducted the preliminary investigation or when the complaint or information was filed pursuant to section 7 of this Rule. In case of doubt on the existence of probable cause, the judge may order the prosecutor to present additional evidence within five (5) days from notice and the issue must be resolved by the court within thirty (30) days from the filing of the complaint of information.(b) *By the Municipal Trial Court.*—When required pursuant to the second paragraph of section 1 of this Rule, the preliminary investigation of cases falling under the original jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Trial Court, Municipal Trial Court in Cities, Municipal Trial Court, or Municipal Circuit Trial Court may be conducted by either the judge or the prosecutor. When conducted by the prosecutor, the procedure for the issuance of a warrant of arrest by the judge shall be governed by paragraph (a) of this section. When the investigation is conducted by the judge himself, he shall follow the procedure provided in section 3 of this Rule. If his findings and recommendations are affirmed by the provincial or city prosecutor, or by the Ombudsman or his deputy, and the corresponding information is filed, he shall issue a warrant of arrest. However, without waiting for the conclusion of the investigation, the judge may issue a warrant of arrest if he finds after an examination in writing and under oath of the complainant and his witnesses in the form of searching questions and answers, that a probable cause exists and that there is a necessity of placing the respondent under immediate custody in order not to frustrate the ends of justice.(c) *When warrant of arrest not necessary.*—A warrant of arrest shall not issue if the accused is already under detention pursuant to a warrant issued by the municipal trial court in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, or if the complaint or information was filed pursuant to section 7 of this Rule or is for an offense penalized by fine only. The court shall then proceed in the exercise of its original jurisdiction. (6a)
Line 70: **Sec. 7. *When accused lawfully arrested without warrant.***—When a person is lawfully arrested without a warrant involving an offense which requires a preliminary investigation, the complaint or information may be filed by a prosecutor without need of such investigation provided an inquest has been conducted in accordance with existing rules.  In the absence or unavailability of an inquest prosecutor, the complaint may be filed by the offended party or a peace officer directly with the proper court on the basis of the affidavit of the offended party or arresting officer or person.Before the complaint or information is filed, the person arrested may ask for a preliminary investigation in accordance with this Rule, but he must sign a waiver of the provisions of Article 125 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended, in the presence of his counsel. Notwithstanding the waiver, he may apply for bail and the investigation must be terminated within fifteen (15) days from its inception.After the filing of the complaint or information in court without a preliminary investigation, the accused may, within five (5) days from the time he learns of its filing, ask for a preliminary investigation with the same right to adduce evidence in his defense as provided in this Rule. (7a;
Line 76: **Sec. 9. *Cases not requiring a preliminary investigation nor covered by the Rule on Summary Procedure.***—(a)  *If filed with the prosecutor.*—If the complaint is filed directly with the prosecutor involving an offense punishable by imprisonment of less than four (4) years, two (2) months and one (1) day, the procedure outlined in section 3(a) of this Rule shall be observed.  The prosecutor shall act on the complaint based on the affidavits and other supporting documents submitted by the complainant within ten (10) days from its filing.(b) *If filed with the Municipal Trial Court.*— If the complaint or information is filed with the Municipal Trial Court or Municipal Circuit Trial Court for an offense covered by this section, the procedure in section 3(a) of this Rule shall be observed.  If within ten (10) days after the filing of the complaint or information, the judge  finds no probable cause  after personally evaluating the evidence,  or after personally examining in writing and  under oath the complainant and his witnesses in the form of searching questions and answers, he shall dismiss the same. He may, how ever, require the submission of additional evidence, within ten (10) days from notice, to determine further the existence of probable cause. If the judge still finds no probable cause despite the additional evidence, he shall, within ten (10) days from its submission or expiration of said period, dismiss the case. When he finds probable cause, he shall issue a warrant of arrest, or a commitment order if the accused had already been arrested, and hold him for trial.  However, if the judge is satisfied that there is no necessity for placing the accused under custody, he may issue summons instead of a warrant of arrest. (9a)
Line 78: **RULE 113
Line 87: **Sec. 5. *Arrest without warrant; when lawful.*** —A peace officer or a private person may, without a warrant, arrest a person:(a)  When, in his presence, the person to be arrested has committed, is actually committing, or is attempting to commit an offense;(b)  When an offense has just been committed and he has probable cause to believe based on personal knowledge of facts or circumstances that the person to be arrested has committed it; and(c)  When the person to be arrested is a prisoner who has escaped from a penal establishment or place where he is serving final judgment or is temporarily confined while his case is pending, or has escaped while being transferred from one confinement to another.In cases falling under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the person arrested without a warrant shall be forthwith delivered to the nearest police station or jail and shall be proceeded against in accordance with section 7 of Rule 112. (5a)
Line 107: **RULE 114
Line 110: **Sec. 2. *Conditions of the bail; requirements.***—All kinds of bail are subject to the following conditions:(a) The undertaking shall be effective upon approval, and unless cancelled, shall remain in force at all stages of the case until promulgation of the judgment of the Regional Trial Court, irrespective of whether the case was originally filed in or appealed to it;(b) The accused shall appear before the proper court whenever required by the court or these Rules;(c) The failure of the accused to appear at the trial without justification and despite due notice shall be deemed a waiver of his right to be present thereat.  In such case, the trial may proceed in absentia; and(d) The bondsman shall surrender the accused to the court for execution of the final judgment.The original papers shall state the full name and address of the accused, the amount of the undertaking and the conditions required by this section.  Photographs (passport size) taken within the last six (6) months showing the face, left and right profiles of the accused must be attached to the bail. (2a)
Line 114: **Sec. 4. *Bail, a matter of right; exception.***—All persons in custody shall be admitted to bail as a matter of right, with sufficient sureties, or released on recognizance as prescribed by law or this Rule (a) before or after conviction by the Metropolitan Trial Court, Municipal Trial Court, Municipal Trial Court in Cities, or Municipal Circuit Trial Court, and (b) before conviction by the Regional Trial Court of an offense not punishable by death, reclusion perpetua, or life imprisonment. (4a)
Line 134: **Sec. 14. *Deposit of cash as bail.***—The accused or any person acting in his behalf may deposit in cash with the nearest collector of internal revenue or provincial, city, or municipal treasurer the amount of bail fixed by the court, or recommended by the prosecutor who investigated or filed the case.  Upon submission of a proper certificate of deposit and a written undertaking showing compliance with the requirements of section 2 of this Rule, the accused shall be discharged from custody.  The money deposited shall be considered as bail and applied to the payment of fine and costs while the excess, if any, shall be returned to the accused or to whoever made the deposit. (14a)
Line 136: **Sec. 15. *Recognizance.***—Whenever allowed by law or these Rules, the court may release a person in custody on his own recognizance or that of a responsible person. (15a)
Line 138: **Sec. 16. *Bail, when not required; reduced bail or recognizance.***-—No bail shall be required when the law or these Rules so provide.When a person has been in custody for a period equal to or more than the possible maximum imprisonment prescribed for the offense charged, he shall be released immediately, without prejudice to the continuation of the trial or the proceedings on appeal. If the maximum penalty to which the accused may be sentenced is destierro, he shall be released after thirty (30) days of preventive imprisonment.A person in custody for a period equal to or more than the minimum of the principal penalty prescribed for the offense charged, without application of the Indeterminate Sentence Law or any modifying circumstance, shall be released on a reduced bail or on his own recognizance, at the discretion of the court. (16a)
Line 142: **Sec. 18. *Notice of application to prosecutor.*** —In the application for bail under section 8 of this Rule, the court must give reasonable notice of the hearing to the prosecutor or require him to submit his recommendation. (18a)
Line 144: **Sec. 19. *Release on bail.***—The accused must be discharged upon approval of the bail by the judge with whom it was filed in accordance with section 17 of this Rule.When bail is filed with a court other than where the case is pending, the judge who accepted the bail shall forward it, together with the order of release and other supporting papers, to the court where the case is pending, which may, for good reason, require a different one to be filed. (19a)
Line 148: **Sec. 21. *Forfeiture of bail.***—When the presence of the accused is required by the court or these Rules, his bondsmen shall be notified to produce him before the court on a given date and time. If the accused fails to appear in person as required, his bail shall be declared forfeited and the bondsmen given thirty (30) days within which to produce their principal and to show cause why no judgment should be rendered against them for the amount of their bail.  Within the said period, the bondsmen must:(a)  produce the body of their principal or give the reason for his non-production; and(b)  explain why the accused did not appear before the court when first required to do so.Failing in these two requisites, a judgment shall be rendered against the bondsmen, jointly and severally, for the amount of the bail. The court shall not reduce or otherwise mitigate the liability of the bondsmen, unless the accused has been surrendered or is acquitted. (21a)
Line 160: **RULE 115
Line 161: RIGHTS OF ACCUSED****SECTION 1. *Rights of accused at the trial.*** —In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall be entitled to the following rights:(a)  To be presumed innocent until the contrary is proved beyond reasonable doubt.(b)  To be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation against him.(c) To be present and defend in person and by counsel at every stage of the proceedings, from arraignment to promulgation of the judgment.  The accused may, however, waive his presence at the trial pursuant to the stipulations set forth in his tail, unless his presence is specifically ordered by the court for purposes of identification.  The absence of the accused without justifiable cause at the trial of which he had notice shall be considered a waiver of his right to be present thereat.  When an accused under custody escapes, he shall be deemed to have waived his right to be present on all subsequent trial dates until custody over him is regained.  Upon motion, the accused may be allowed to defend himself in person when it sufficiently appears to the court that he can properly protect his rights without the assistance of counsel.(d) To testify as a witness in his own behalf but subject to cross-examination on matters covered by direct examination.  His silence shall not in any manner prejudice him.(e) To be exempt from being compelled to be a witness against himself.(f)  To confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him at the trial.  Either party may utilize as part of its evidence the testimony of a witness who is deceased, out of or can not with due diligence be found in the Philippines, unavailable, or otherwise unable to testify, given in another case or proceeding, judicial or administrative, involving the same parties and subject matter, the adverse party having the opportunity to cross-examine him.(g) To have compulsory process issued to secure the attendance of witnesses and production of other evidence in his behalf.(h) To have speedy, impartial and public trial.(i) To appeal in all cases allowed and in the manner prescribed by law. (1a) **RULE 116
Line 188: **RULE 117
Line 197: **Sec. 5. *Effect of sustaining the motion to quash.***—If the motion to quash is sustained, the court may order that another complaint or information be filed except as provided in section 6 of this Rule. If the order is made, the accused, if in custody, shall not be discharged unless admitted to bail.  If no order is made or if having been made, no new information is filed within the time specified in the order or within such further time as the court may allow for good cause, the accused, if in custody, shall be discharged unless he is also in custody for another charge. (5a)
Line 199: **Sec. 6. *Order sustaining the motion to quash not a bar to another prosecution; exception.***—An order sustaining the motion to quash is not a bar to another prosecution for the same offense unless the motion was based on the grounds specified in section 3 (g) and (i) of this Rule. (6a)
Line 201: **Sec. 7. *Former conviction or acquittal; double jeopardy.***—When an accused has been convicted or acquitted, or the case against him dismissed or otherwise terminated without his express consent by a court of competent jurisdiction, upon a valid complaint or information or other formal charge sufficient in form and substance to sustain a conviction and after the accused had pleaded to the charge, the conviction or acquittal of the accused or the dismissal of the case shall be a bar to another prosecution for the offense charged, or for any attempt to commit the same or frustration thereof, or for any offense which necessarily includes or is necessarily included in the offense charged in the former complaint or information.However, the conviction of the accused shall not be a bar to another prosecution for an offense which necessarily includes the offense charged in the former complaint or information under any of the following instances:(a)   the graver offense developed due to supervening facts arising from the same act or omission constituting the former charge;(b)  the facts constituting the graver charge became known or were discovered only  after a plea was  entered in the former complaint or information; or(c)   the plea of guilty to the lesser offense was made without the consent of the prosecutor and of the offended party except as provided in section 1(f) of Rule 116.In any of the foregoing cases, where the accused satisfies or serves in whole or in part the judgment, he shall be credited with the same in the event of conviction for the graver offense. (7a)
Line 205: **Sec. 9. *Failure to move to quash or to allege any ground therefor.***  — The failure of the accused to assert any ground of a motion to quash before he pleads to the complaint or information, either because he did not file a motion to quash or failed to allege the same in said motion, shall be deemed a waiver of any objections except those based on the grounds provided for in paragraphs (a), (b), (g), and (i) of section 3 of this Rule. (8a)
Line 207: **RULE 118
Line 210: **Sec. 2. *Pre-trial agreement.***—All agreements or admissions made or entered during the pre-trial conference shall be reduced in writing and signed by the accused and counsel, otherwise, they cannot be used against the accused.  The agreements covering the matters referred to in section 1 of this Rule shall be approved by the court. (
Line 220: **RULE 119
Line 243: **Sec. 4. *Factors for granting continuance.*** — The following factors, among others, shall be considered by a court in determining whether to grant a continuance under section 3(f) of this Rule.(a)  Whether or not the failure to grant a continuance in the proceeding would likely make a continuation of such proceeding impossible or result in a miscarriage of justice; and(b)  Whether or not the case taken as a whole is so novel, unusual and complex, due to the number of accused or the nature of the prosecution, or that it is unreasonable to expect adequate preparation within the periods of time established therein.In addition, no continuance under section 3(f) of this Rule shall be granted because of congestion of the court's calendar or lack of diligent preparation or failure to obtain available witnesses on the part of the prosecutor. (
Line 251: **Sec. 6. *Extended time limit.***— Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1(g), Rule 116 and the preceding section 1, for the first twelve-calendar-month period following its effectivity on September 15, 1998, the time limit with respect to the period from arraignment to trial imposed by said provision shall be one hundred eighty (180) days. For the second twelve-month period, the time limit shall be one hundred twenty (120) days, and for the third twelve-month period, the time limit shall be eighty (80) days. (
Line 267: **Sec. 9. *Remedy where accused is not brought to trial within the time limit.***—If the accused is not brought to trial within the time limit required by Section 1(g), Rule 116 and Section 1, as extended by Section 6 of this rule, the information may be dismissed on motion of the accused on the ground of denial of his right to speedy trial.  The accused shall have the burden of proving the motion but the prosecution shall have the burden of going forward with the evidence to establish the exclusion of time under section 3 of this Rule.  The dismissal shall be subject to the rules on double jeopardy.Failure of the accused to move for dismissal prior to trial shall constitute a waiver of the right to dismiss under this section. (
Line 293: **Sec. 20. *Appointment of acting prosecutor.***  — When a prosecutor, his assistant or deputy is disqualified to act due to any of the grounds stated in section 1 of Rule 137 or for any other reason, the judge or the prosecutor shall communicate with the Secretary of Justice in order that the latter may appoint an acting prosecutor. (12a)
Line 303: **RULE 120
Line 318: **Sec. 8. *Entry of judgment.***—After a judgment has become final, it shall be entered in accordance with Rule 36. (8)
Line 320: **Sec. 9. *Existing provisions governing suspension of sentence, probation and parole not affected by this Rule.***—Nothing in this Rule shall affect any existing provisions in the laws governing suspension of sentence, probation or parole. (9a)
Line 322: **RULE 121
Line 335: **RULE 122
Line 340: **Sec.  3.  *How appeal taken.***—(a)  The appeal to the Regional Trial Court, or to the Court of Appeals in cases decided by the Regional Trial Court in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with the court which rendered the judgment or final order appealed from and by serving a copy thereof upon the adverse party.(b)  The appeal to the Court of Appeals in cases decided by the Regional Trial Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction shall be by petition for review under Rule 42.(c)  The appeal to the Supreme Court in cases where the penalty imposed by the Regional Trial Court is reclusion perpetua or life imprisonment, or where a lesser penalty is imposed but for offenses committed on the same occasion or which arose out of the same occurrence that gave rise to the more serious offense for which the penalty of death, reclusion perpetua, or life imprisonment is imposed, shall be by filing a notice of appeal in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.(d)  No notice of appeal is necessary in cases where the death penalty is imposed by the Regional Trial Court.  The same shall be automatically reviewed by the Supreme Court as provided in section 10 of this Rule.(e) Except as provided in the last paragraph of section 13, Rule 124, all other appeals to the Supreme Court shall be by petition for review on certiorari under Rule 45. (3a)
Line 342: **Sec. 4. *Service of notice of appeal.***—If personal service of the copy of the notice of appeal can not be made upon the adverse party or his counsel, service may be done by registered mail or by substituted service pursuant to sections 7 and 8 of Rule 13.(4a)
Line 362: **RULE 123
Line 363: PROCEDURE IN THE MUNICIPAL TRIAL COURTS****SECTION 1. *Uniform Procedure.***—The procedure to be observed in the Metropolitan Trial Courts, Municipal Trial Courts and Municipal Circuit Trial Courts shall be the same as in the Regional Trial Courts, except where a particular provision applies only to either of said courts and in criminal cases governed by the Revised Rule on Summary Procedure. (1a) **RULE 124
Line 376: **Sec. 7. *Contents of brief.***—The briefs in criminal cases shall have the same contents as provided in sections 13 and 14 of Rule 44. A certified true copy of the decision or final order appealed from shall be appended to the brief of the appellant. (7a)
Line 378: **Sec. 8. *Dismissal of appeal for abandonment or failure to prosecute.*** —The Court of Appeals may, upon motion of the appellee or motu proprio and with notice to the appellant in either case, dismiss the appeal if the appellant fails to file his brief within the time prescribed by this Rule, except where the appellant is represented by a counsel de oficio.The Court of Appeals may also, upon motion of the appellee or motu proprio, dismiss the appeal if the appellant escapes from prison or confinement, jumps bail or flees to a foreign country during the pendency of the appeal. (8a)
Line 390: **Sec. 14. *Motion for new trial.***—At any time after the appeal from the lower court has been perfected and before the judgment of the Court of Appeals convicting the appellant becomes final, the latter may move for a new trial on the ground of newly-discovered evidence material to his defense.  The motion shall conform with the provisions of section 4, Rule 121. (14a)
Line 392: **Sec. 15. *Where new trial conducted.***—When a new trial is granted, the Court of Appeals may conduct the hearing and receive evidence as provided in section 12 of this Rule or refer the trial to the court of origin. (15a)
Line 398: **Sec. 18. *Application of certain rules in civil procedure to criminal cases.***—The provisions of Rules 42, 44 to 46 and 48 to 56 relating to procedure in the Court of Appeals and in the Supreme Court in original and appealed civil cases shall be applied to criminal cases insofar as they are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Rule. (18a)
Line 400: **RULE 125
Line 407: **RULE 126
Line 418: **Sec. 6. *Issuance and form of search warrant.*** —If the judge is satisfied of the existence of facts upon which the application is based or that there is probable cause to believe that they exist, he shall issue the warrant, which must be substantially in the form prescribed by these Rules. (5a)
Line 430: **Sec. 12. *Delivery of property and inventory thereof to court; return and proceedings thereon.*** —(a) The officer must forthwith deliver the property seized to the judge who issued the warrant, together with a true inventory thereof duly verified under oath.(b) Ten (10) days after issuance .of the search warrant, the issuing judge shall ascertain if the return has been made, and if none, shall summon the person to whom the warrant was issued and require him to explain why no return was made. If the return has been made, the judge shall ascertain whether section 11 of this Rule has been complied with and shall require that the property seized be delivered to him.  The judge shall see to it that subsection (a) hereof has been complied with.(c) The return on the search warrant shall be filed and kept by the custodian of the log book on search warrants who shall enter therein the date of the return, the result, and other actions of the judge.A violation of this section shall constitute contempt of court. (11a)
Line 436: **RULE 127
Line 439: **Sec. 2. *Attachment.***—When the civil action is properly instituted in the criminal action as provided in Rule 111, the offended party may have the property of the accused attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered from the accused in the following cases:(a)     When the accused is about to abscond from the Philippines;(b)     When the criminal action is based on a claim for money or property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied or converted to the use of the accused who is a public officer, officer of a corporation, attorney, factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for a willful violation of duty;(c)     When the accused has concealed, removed, or disposed of his property, or is about to do so; and(d)     When the accused resides outside the Philippines. (2a)